The Global Differential GPS System – NASA

FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW
The GDGPS System is driven by a powerful software set, developed completely in-house at JPL, and possessing 
many unique features and capabilities. The C++ software was developed and evolved from one of the world's 
leading GPS data processing and analysis software packages, JPL's GIPSY-OASIS and its real-time version RTG (
Real Time GIPSY). 

USABILITY
U.1.	The system shall be completely automated, with end-to-end automatic operations.
U.2.	Complete positioning system. 
	U.2.1.	The software handles all aspects of a complete real time global positioning system, including GNSS orbit determination and simultaneous network positioning. 
	U.2.2.	The software performs user positioning and orbit determination. 
	U.2.3.	The system supports real-time applications as well as post-processing applications. 
	U.2.4.	Simulations capability.
U.3.	Highly portable. The software is regularly tested on multiple flavors of Linux. Various positioning modules have been ported to several embedded real-time environments, including flight receivers.
U.4.	Versatile. The system works with many types of popular geodetic receivers. Flexible adaptation layer makes it easy to accommodate new receiver types.
U.5.	Visual aids. Real time graphic display of performance using network monitoring tools and internal quality control.

QUALITY FACTORS
Q.1.	The system shall be developed with Object Oriented C++ and Python for portability and maintainability.
Q.2.	Modularity. Highly modular code will be developed to support embedded as well as ground applications.
Q.3.	Reliability. There must be an outstanding track record of continuous operations.
Q.4.	Accuracy. All models are sub-cm accurate for the most demanding science applications.
Q.5.	Maintainability. The system shall be designed for operations by a third party and for team maintenance. Configuration control management.
CREATIVITY
C.1.	Parallelized architecture (MPI) enables real-time solutions to massive estimation problems.
C.2.	State-space architecture guarantees seamless global uniformity of the differential corrections
C.3.	Innovative use of the internet to achieve robustness through redundancy
C.4.	Unique satellite dynamics and signal models developed in house at JPL
C.5.	The system shall include efficient GNSS data compression
C.6.	Innovative system  developed for end-to-end redundant operations provides high reliability
C.7.	Uniquely flexible filter design allows any parameter to have stochastic attributes
C.8.	The system shall be Capable of adding satellites/receivers on the fly
C.9.	Unique dynamics integrator supports very high orbit modeling accuracy
C.10.	Tropospheric delay model and stochastic estimation capability designed for users or reference sites
C.11.	The system shall exploit full information content of phase data
C.12.	The system shall provide real time playback
C.13.	The Software will be protected by multiple U.S. and non-U.S. patents
